Add docs for Enterprise Search in ECK (#3185)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/orchestrating-elastic-stack-applications/enterprise-search.asciidoc

:page_id: enterprise-search
ifdef::env-github[]
****

> link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/k8s-{page_id}.html[View this document on the Elastic website]

Reviewer: This is how we do it everywhere today, but I wonder if there's a way to embed the branch name here too so that if someone is browsing the 1.1 branch it will link them to that docs page

****
endif::[]
[id="{p}-{page_id}"]
= Run Enterprise Search on ECK

This section describes how to deploy, configure and access Enterprise Search with ECK.

* <<{p}-enterprise-search-quickstart,Quickstart>>
* <<{p}-enterprise-search-configuration,Configuration>>

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-quickstart"]
== Quickstart

. Apply the following specification to deploy Enterprise Search. ECK automatically configures the secured connection

> to an Elasticsearch cluster named `quickstart`, created in link:../k8s-quickstart.html[Elasticsearch quickstart].

Reviewer: nit: no need for a newline here

[source,yaml,subs="attributes,+macros"]
----
cat $$<<$$EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: enterprisesearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: EnterpriseSearch
metadata:
  name: enterprise-search-quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: quickstart
EOF
----

. Monitor the Enterprise Search deployment.
+
Retrieve details about the Enterprise Search deployment:
+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl get enterprisesearch
----
+
[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
NAME                            HEALTH    NODES    VERSION   AGE
enterprise-search-quickstart    green     1        {version}      8m
----
+
List all the Pods belonging to a given deployment:
+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl get pods --selector='enterprisesearch.k8s.elastic.co/name=enterprise-search-quickstart'
----
+
[source,sh]
----
NAME                                                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
enterprise-search-quickstart-ent-58b84db85-dl7c6    1/1     Running   0          2m50s
----
+
. Access logs for that Pod:
+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl logs -f enterprise-search-quickstart-ent-58b84db85-dl7c6
----

. Access Enterprise Search
+

> A ClusterIP service is automatically created for the deployment, and can be used to access the Enterprise Search API from within the Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ClusterIP Service is automatically created for the deployment, and can be used to access the Enterprise Search API from within the Kubernetes cluster:
```

A ClusterIP service is automatically created for the deployment,

> and can be used to access the Enterprise Search API from within the Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer: ditto here with the newline

+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl get service enterprise-search-quickstart-ent-http
----
+
Use `kubectl-portforward` to access Enterprise Search from your local workstation:
+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl port-forward service/enterprise-search-quickstart-ent-http 3002
----
+
Open `https://localhost:3002` in your browser.
+

> NOTE: Your browser will show a warning because the self-signed certificate configured by default is not verified by a third party certificate authority and not trusted by your browser. Acknowledge the warning for the purposes of this quickstart but it is highly recommended that you <<{p}-enterprise-search-expose,configure valid certificates>> for any production deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Your browser will show a warning because the self-signed certificate configured by default is not verified by a self-signed certificate authority and not trusted by your browser. Acknowledge the warning for the purposes of this quickstart but it is highly recommended that you <<{p}-enterprise-search-expose,configure valid certificates>> for any production deployments.
```

Author: uh?

Author: ah I got what you mean.
Let's maybe change it to `not verified by a known certificate authority`?

Reviewer: 👍

+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl get secret quickstart-es-elastic-user -o=jsonpath='{.data.elastic}' | base64 --decode; echo
----

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-configuration"]
== Configuration

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-upgrade-specification"]
=== Upgrade the Enterprise Search specification

Any setting can be changed in the Enterprise Search yaml specification, including version upgrades. ECK detects those changes and ensures a smooth rolling upgrade of all Enterprise Search Pods.

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-custom-configuration"]
=== Customize Enterprise Search configuration

> ECK sets up a default Enterprise Search link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/configuration.html#configuration[configuration]. Customize it through the ``config element in the specification.

Reviewer 2: ``config element
=> could it be `config` element?

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-custom-configuration"]
=== Customize Enterprise Search configuration

ECK sets up a default Enterprise Search configuration automatically.

> It can can be customized with link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/configuration.html#configuration[Enterprise Search configuration] through the `config` element in the specification.

Reviewer 3: Duplicate "can", but the sentence has a bigger issue. I recommend moving the link to Enterprise Search to the sentence above, so they read like this:

> ECK sets up a default [Enterprise Search configuration](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/configuration.html#configuration). Customize it through the `config` element in the specification.

> Especially, `ent_search.external_url` must be set to the desired URL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At a minimum, you must set `ent_search.external_url` to the desired URL.
```

> apiVersion: enterprisesearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1

Reviewer 4: I'm sure I'm _really_ late to the game here, but I thought most config files in various Elastic products prefer `snake_case` to `camelCase`.

Author: (better late than never, no worries!)
The format of this custom resource is really specific to Kubernetes and must use `camelCase`, there's not much we can do about it. However we keep the original Enterprise Search config format in the `config` section.

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: enterprisesearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: EnterpriseSearch
metadata:
  name: enterprise-search-quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: quickstart
  config:
    # define the exposed URL at which users will reach Enterprise Search
    ent_search.external_url: https://my-custom-domain:3002

>     # configure app search document size

Reviewer: this is the _max_ document size, correct?

> Some sensitive settings are best stored in Kubernetes secrets, referenced in the Enterprise Search specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some sensitive settings are best stored in Kubernetes Secrets, referenced in the Enterprise Search specification.
```

Some sensitive settings are best stored in Kubernetes secrets, referenced in the Enterprise Search specification.

This example sets up a Secret with SMTP credentials:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: enterprisesearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: EnterpriseSearch
metadata:
  name: enterprise-search-quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: quickstart
  config:
    ent_search.external_url: https://my-custom-domain:3002
  configRef:
  - secretName: smtp-credentials
---
kind: Secret
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: smtp-credentials
stringData:
  enterprise-search.yml: |-
    email.account.enabled: true
    email.account.smtp.auth: plain
    email.account.smtp.starttls.enable: false
    email.account.smtp.host: 127.0.0.1
    email.account.smtp.port: 25
    email.account.smtp.user: myuser
    email.account.smtp.password: mypassword
    email.account.email_defaults.from: my@email.com
----

ECK merges the content of `config` and `configRef` into a single internal Secret. In case of duplicate settings, the last referenced Secret takes precedence.

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-custom-pod-template"]
=== Customize the Pod template

> Enterprise Search Pods specification can be overridden through the `podTemplate` element.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can override the Enterprise Search Pods specification through the `podTemplate` element.
```

This example overrides the default 4Gi deployment to use 8Gi instead, and makes the deployment highly-available with 3 Pods:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: enterprisesearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: EnterpriseSearch
metadata:
  name: enterprise-search-quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 3
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: quickstart
  podTemplate:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: enterprise-search
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 3
            memory: 8Gi
          limits:
            memory: 8Gi
        env:
        - name: JAVA_OPTS
          value: -Xms7500m -Xmx7500m
----

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-expose"]
=== Expose Enterprise Search

By default ECK manages self-signed TLS certificates to secure the connection to Enterprise Search.

> It also restricts the Kubernetes service to `ClusterIP` type that cannot be accessed publicly.

Reviewer: Ditto newline

> See link:../k8s-accessing-elastic-services.html[how to access Elastic Stack services] to customize TLS settings and expose the service.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is the correct link format.

See link:../k8s-accessing-elastic-services.html[how to access Elastic Stack services] to customize TLS settings and expose the service.

> NOTE: When exposed outside the scope of `localhost`, make sure to set `ent_search.external_url` accordingly in Enterprise Search configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: When exposed outside the scope of `localhost`, make sure to set `ent_search.external_url` accordingly in the Enterprise Search configuration.
```

Reviewer: I wonder if we should make this clearer that really, any usable configuration needs this

Author: do you think this note is not explicit enough?

Reviewer: I think it could be clearer, the [docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/configuration.html) contain some decent phrasing imo:

>Define the exposed URL at which users will reach Enterprise Search.
Defaults to localhost:3002 for testing purposes.
Most cases will use one of:
* An IP: http://255.255.255.255
* A FQDN: http://example.com
* Shortname defined via /etc/hosts: http://ent-search.search
ent_search.external_url: http://localhost:3002

[id="{p}-enterprise-search-connect-non-eck-es"]
=== Connect to an external Elasticsearch cluster

The `elasticsearchRef` element allows ECK to automatically configure Enterprise Search to establish a secured connection to a managed Elasticsearch cluster.

> Enterprise Search can also be manually configured to access any available Elasticsearch cluster:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Also, you can manually configure Enterprise Search to access any available Elasticsearch cluster:
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes,+macros"]
----
cat $$<<$$EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: enterprisesearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: EnterpriseSearch
metadata:
  name: enterprise-search-quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  config:
    elasticsearch.host: https://elasticsearch-url:9200
    elasticsearch.username: elastic

>     elasticsearch.password: my-password

Reviewer: I don't think we want to encourage this behavior, correct?

Author: do you mean cleartext credentials, or association to an external cluster?

For the first one, I should definitely make this a `configRef` secret.

Reviewer: Yes the cleartext credentials is what I meant, sorry for not being clearer the first time around
